# Chapter 4 - General Alert

**Log Transcript:** Generation Ship GS1; General logs databank.

**Log creator:** Multiple. General Alert Status in Force. All crew log notes collated for forensic purposes.

**Crypto mode:** Cleartext.

**Transcript start:**

*L. Kieno (Astrogation, Navigation, Command):* Crew leader Lilly Kieno reporting. We just received a radio signal from the core of the star system. The strength of the signal rivals our long range comm laser but emits in frequencies across the entire electromagnetic spectrum. The telescopes took a photo of the signal source, it shines like a miniature star! I am signaling general alert. Is this a natural occurrence or an artificial device?

*W. Zemke (Communications, Linguistics):* Got a signal alert on my terminal and someone crashed my latest SI training cycle. The SI will have to wait, I am on orders to join the signal analysis team. My linguistics and comms training now have an actual reason for being out of hypersleep. I guess the flight planners knew what they were doing when they made the monitoring crew roster.

*L. Kieno (Astrogation, Navigation, Command):* During the past week of deceleration both GS1 and GS2 released four pairs of probes on vectors perpendicular to the direction of the ships. As we are decelerating those probes are well ahead of us now in an imagined pyramid pattern with the tip of the pyramids being each ship. The probes looking at the system from a different angle, giving us more understanding. I confirmed that GS2 is also receiving a signal much like if not exactly the same as ours. But none of our eight probes can see the signal. That confirms that the signal is not a broadcast or a pulsar type of natural event. Ray Charles and Stevie Wonder are under a powerful alien spotlight. We are not alone!

*O. Tekka (Electronics, Communications):* This signal we are getting is quite complex. I tried to run immediate decoding but most the habitat computer resources were taken over by an SI training program executed by our quiet polish comms expert Wienczyslaw. Had to kill the program. It’s rude but I need the computer and Zemke on this analysis.

*G. Minasyan (Xenobiology, Life support):* I am super stoked and very worried at the same time! The signal confirms a technologically advanced native life but the telemetry from our probes doesn’t show anything resembling cities, night lights or structured electromagnetic radiation from the planets. Sadly the sensor packages of the two pairs of probes that we released so far are adjusted to relativistic velocities, so no general EM detectors for smaller sources nor tooling to detect biolife. If, whatever is signaling us resembles human life, it’s not on the planets. Then again, the whatever may be completely unknown. I must prepare protocols for understanding our new neighbours.

*L. Kieno (Astrogation, Navigation, Command):* Eric Laska asked whether the Ray Charles will prepare weapons. We all laughed him out of central observation. I am ashamed to admit that i got to actually considering whether we have anything to throw at a possible aggressor. The sensor probes can be used as kinetic missiles if we set them for maximum burn instead of orbital propulsion mode. The comm lasers can burn a nasty hole in a metal hull at close range if we set it to maximum power. Some drilling and construction equipment may become close combat weapons. Given time to reach parking orbit, deploy the entire crew and machinery and establish a foothold in the system, we may be able to manufacture some more advanced weapons.  Even so, the closest to military training in the crew complement is law enforcement and some historical tactics in the inactive computers in storage. None of this will help us much in a conflict with a native race of similar or more advanced technological level as ourselves. I fully believe the other engineers already did the same mental exercise. We need to find a peaceful route.

*E. Laska (Biomedical, Habitation):* My worst fears have come to life. After traversing this black abyss we are met with an advanced native race. Will they welcome us or will they just throw some unknown weapon at us and make us part of the outer asteroid belt. Or like in the old Earth movies, research and experiment on us? I must stay on hand for the crew, but will continue with my prayers.

*W. Zemke (Communications, Linguistics):* Ona Tekka is already running spectral analysis on the signal, and I am trying to detect symbols and sequences. The signal is actually 50 identical signals sent on 50 different monochromatic lasers, but with a cascading signal strength of each wavelength. Ona likens the signal to someone trying to yell on all languages hoping one will be understood. I think if we respond in one wavelength the signal source will focus on that one. I also did a bit of quick math on the total power output of the signal source. It’s between 100-200 times more powerful than our long range comm laser. Simply put, if ‘they’ wanted to kill us, all they could have done is synchronize the signal strength on all wavelengths, crank it to full power and point it at us. With our engines in deceleration burn, we are a large and brightly lit target. They are actually careful not to punch a hole in Ray Charles, and that’s great news. As soon as I commented on this out loud the entire crew seemd to breathe a bit easier.

*O. Tekka (Electronics, Communications):* Kieno doesn’t allow for us to signal back on a single frequency per Zemke’s suggestion. I managed to deconstruct the signals and recorded a full sequence on a single frequency for analysis. Zemke says that about a third of signal looks like our own signalling protocols with the other two-thirds more complex and seemingly carrying much more information. We are both working on parsing the symbols using linguistics and mathematical methodologies. Zemke insisted that he also run our standard decoding protocols on the potentially familiar thirds of the message. Kieno let him as long as he doesn’t hog the computer again.

*L. Kieno (Astrogation, Navigation, Command):* Tekka and Zemke claim that they decoded the message in the signal. They are both in shock and Laska had to give them a mild sedative. Tekka is now sharing the signal decode on all terminals:

*Signal decode transcript:* This is Marie Ramirez, captain of the GS7, Effort mission Wave three. This signal is sent from our Earth signalling stations using alternating signalling protocols of all three Waves and multiple frequencies. I know you are now digging through the archives for flight plans of Wave three. The Wave three left Earth on schedule 40 Earth Years after you. But we went much faster, and we have you to thank for that. The telemetry of your acceleration burn helped Wave two and Wave three to achieve better acceleration with the same fuel and acceleration time slot, so we flew at 14%C instead of 10%. Wave three arrived here 18 Earth Years ago. This is not a joke -- you are not alone, but you are in great company. The rest of the signal package includes a map of current orbital habitats and possible parking orbits for safe arrival. Welcome!

**Transcript end.**